hi this is Jeff Saul's enstein former
top 100 ATP pro and high performance
coach and I'm here to help you today
with your serve and what we're going to
do is we are going to model Roger
Federer and how he starts his motion so
let's get to that video lesson right now
there are many aspects of the roger
federer serve that you can admire but
today I want to talk about how he starts
this is a critical piece of the puzzle
and this is something that you can
definitely model and make it work for
you
so what Roger does on his serve is when
he gets up into his stance he rocks
forward leans forward and all of his
weight is on his front foot he's he's
basically unweighted with his back foot
right here this is how he's starting his
arms are relaxed and hanging and then
from here he initiated by rocking back
onto his back foot now you can try it a
different way like pete sampras did back
in the day and start back on your back
foot right away you've got to find what
works for you but I wanted to present a
starting position for you today
that will allow you to feel relaxed and
comfortable from the very beginning now
I'm going to start into that roger
federer starting position where I'm on
my front foot most of my weight is there
my arms are hanging and I'm in that
relaxed position before I initiate the
motion it's a great way to develop
rhythm timing and feel by getting into
that relaxed position with your weight
on the front foot and your arms relaxed
down in this position so hopefully you
enjoyed this video and feel free to
leave a comment let me know what you
think of this tip I really think it's
going to help you out and we'll see you
at the next one